---
title: "Adding math"
date: 2024-06-10
tags: ["intro"]
---

Let's discuss the *fixed point problem*. We aim to solve a system of equations using a fixed point method.

The Bethe equations are:

$$
\xi_i^L = (-1)^{N-1} \prod_{j=1}^{N} \frac{1 + \xi_i \xi_j - \Delta \xi_j}{1 + \xi_i \xi_j - \Delta \xi_i}, \quad i= 1, \dots, N 
$$

for $$N\leq L \in\mathbb{Z}_{\geq 1}$$ and $$\Delta \in \mathbb{R}$$.

The idea was to defibe a sequence $$\xi(k) =(\xi_1(k), \dots, \xi_N(k))$$ as follows

$$
\xi_i(k+1)^L = (-1)^{N-1} \prod_{j=1}^{N} \frac{1 + \xi_i(k) \xi_j(k) - \Delta \xi_j(k)}{1 + \xi_i(k) \xi_j(k) - \Delta \xi_i(k)}, \quad i= 1, \dots, N 
$$

The problem is that we need to take an $$L^{th}$$ root and choose a branch cut. Then, to apply the *Fixed Point Theorem*, we need to make sure that our sequence is bounded away from the brach cut. This seems to be true in practice for $$\Delta$$ near $$0$$, but it seems to be fairly involved to prove that its true. In particular, it requires some bounds on $$\Delta$$, depending on $$N$$ and $$L$$, that are not trivial to optimize. I'm thinking of abandoning this approach.

I would like to consider an alternate sequence instead. First, note that we have

$$
\begin{align}
&(-1)^{N-1} \xi_i^L \prod_{j=1}^{N}(\xi_j^{-1} + \xi_i  - \Delta \xi_i\xi_j^{-1})\\
&= \prod_{j=1}^{N} ( \xi_i  - (\Delta- (\xi_j^{-1}) )\\
&= \sum_{m=0}^{N} (-1)^{N-m} e_{N-m}(x_1, x_2, \dots, x_n) \xi_i^m\\
&= (-1)^{N-1} e_{N-1}(x_1, \dots, x_N)\xi_i +\sum_{m\neq 1}^{N} (-1)^{N-m} e_{N-m}(x_1, x_2, \dots, x_n) \xi_i^m
\end{align}
$$

where $$x_j= \Delta - \xi_j^{-1}$$ and $$e_{m}$$ is the elemtary symmetric polynomial. Thus, we may consider the following sequence

$$
\xi_i(k+1) = \left(\xi_i(k)^L \prod_{j=1}^{N}(\xi_j(k)^{-1} + \xi_i(k)  - \Delta \xi_i(k)\xi_j(k)^{-1}) + (-1)^N \sum_{m\neq 1}^{N} (-1)^{N-m} e_{N-m}(x_1(k), \dots, x_N(k)) \xi_i(k)^m\right)/e_{N-1}(x_1(k), \dots, x_N(k))
$$

where $$x_j(k) = \Delta - \xi_j(k)^{-1}$$.

Let us denote the right-side of the equation above as $$F_i(\xi(k))$$ and set $$F=(F_1, \dots, F_N)$$. Then, the sequence is given as follows

$$
\xi(k+1) = F(\xi(k)).
$$

Then, to use the *Fixed Point Theorem*, we need to show that $$F$$ is continuous (in the appropate region) and that the map is a contraction (or, sufficiently, that the norm of the Jacobian of $$F$$ is less than one).


{% include utterances.html %}
